---
layout: post
title:  "PhD in Analytics for Visualization in Computational Surgery Planning"
date:   2020-07-09 08:45:48 +0200
categories: job phd analytics visualization surgery planning 
permalink: /job/phd-analytics-visualization-surgery-planning
---

Do you want to work in the growing sector of medical technology? Do you want to
start your career in a network of leading universities, research centers and
hospitals? NTNU in Gjøvik has connection with several European universities,
research institutions and industrial partners.

The Norwegian University of Science and Technology’s (NTNU) Department of
Computer Science in Gjøvik, Norway, invites applications to a 3-year early stage
researcher position(PhD-student) in computational medicine within the project
ALive, which is funded by The Norwegian Research Council. The student will be
affiliated with the [Norwegian Colour and Visual Computing
Laboratory](http://colourlab.no/).

You will be located at Campus Gjøvik and report to the Head of Department.

### This is NTNU

<iframe class="ntnu" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cIgKd1SwGLI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

At NTNU, creating knowledge for a better world is the vision that unites our 7 400 employees and 42 000 students.

We are looking for dedicated employees to join us.

You will find more information about working at NTNU and the application process [here](https://www.ntnu.edu/vacancies/).

### Duties of the position

The focus of the PhD project will be on employment of analysis techniques (like
optimization, dimensionality reduction and manifold learning), geometric
modelling techniques (such as splines), as well as visualization techniques
(like projections, mapping and shading), for improving the visualization of
surgery plans—normally represented with medical images and 3D surface models.
The ambition of the project is that the research results are translated to
real-world applications; in ALive, we have software support to help on the
implementation of the research results into open-source software platforms like
3D Slicer. This will give the candidate, the opportunity to acquire competences
on practical implementation of medical technology.

The project is coordinated by Oslo University Hospital which will provide with
the needed real medical data as well as expertise from clinicians. The project
has national partners (SINTEF) that will support the implementation of the
research results into medical software, and international partners (University
of Cordoba, Spain) that will study aspects related to high-performance
computing. Therefore, it is expected that the candidate will have a good
national and international collaborative environment.

### Required selection criteria

The PhD-position's main objective is to qualify for work in research positions.
The qualification requirement is that you have completed a master’s degree or
second degree (equivalent to 120 credits) with a strong academic background in:

 - Applied mathematics
 - Computer science
 - Biomedical engineering

Related fields or equivalent education with a grade of B or better in terms of
[NTNU’s grading
scale](https://innsida.ntnu.no/wiki/-/wiki/English/Grading+scale) could also be
considered for application. If you do not have letter grades from previous
studies, you must have an equally good academic foundation. If you are unable to
meet these criteria you may be considered only if you can document that you are
particularly suitable for education leading to a PhD degree.

The appointment is to be made in accordance with the regulations in force
concerning [State Employees and Civil Servants and national guidelines for
appointment as PhD, post doctor and research
assistant](https://lovdata.no/dokument/SF/forskrift/2006-01-31-102).

Other required selection criteria:

 - Good coding skills with C/C++ and/or Python
 - Strong academic record: B grade or higher as weighted average grade of Master’s.
 - It is an advantage to show special interest and competence within medical
   technology, geometrical modeling and computer graphics.
 - Good written and oral English 

### Personal characteristics

We emphasize collaborative skills, initiative, ability to accomplish tasks,
practical skills, and ability to create and establish new projects in
collaboration with colleagues.

### We offer

 - Exciting and stimulating tasks in a strong international academic environment
 - An open and [inclusive work
   environment](http://innsida.ntnu.no/wiki/-/wiki/Norsk/Inkluderende+arbeidsliv)
   with dedicated colleagues
 - Favourable terms in the [Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund employee
benefits](https://www.spk.no/en/)
 - [Employees benefits](https://innsida.ntnu.no/wiki/-/wiki/English/Benefits+and+discounts)
 
### Salary and conditions

PhD candidates are remunerated in code 1017, and are normally remunerated at
gross from NOK 479 600 per annum before tax, depending on qualifications and
seniority. From the salary, 2% is deducted as a contribution to the Norwegian
Public Service Pension Fund.

The employment period is 3 years.

Appointment to a PhD position requires that you are admitted to the [PhD
programme in Computer Science](http://www.ntnu.edu/studies/phcos), within three
months of employment, and that you participate in an organized PhD programme
during the employment period.

The engagement is to be made in accordance with the regulations in force
concerning State Employees and Civil Servants, and the acts relating to Control
of the Export of Strategic Goods, Services and Technology. Candidates who by
assessment of the application and attachment are seen to conflict with the
criteria in the latter law will be prohibited from recruitment to NTNU. After
the appointment you must assume that there may be changes in the area of work.

The position is subject to external funding.

It is a prerequisite you can be present at and accessible to the institution
daily.


### About the application

The application and supporting documentation to be used as the basis for the
assessment must be in English.

Publications and other scientific work must follow the application. Please note
that applications are only evaluated based on the information available on the
application deadline. You should ensure that your application shows clearly how
your skills and experience meet the criteria which are set out above.

The application must include:

 - CV, certificates and diplomas. Certified copies of study credits with grades will be needed from those called to an interview
 - A short motivation letter including: 
   - a short description of the work to be carried out
   - research background and competance
   - personal interest in the position
 - Academic works - published or unpublished - that you would like to be
   considered in the assessment
 - Name and address of three referees
 
Joint works will be considered. If it is difficult to identify your contribution
to joint works, you must attach a brief description of your participation.

In the evaluation of which candidate is best qualified, emphasis will be placed
on education, experience and personal suitability.
 
NTNU is committed to following evaluation criteria for research quality
according to [The San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment -
DORA](https://sfdora.org)

### General information

[Working at NTNU](https://www.ntnu.edu/nirs)

A good work environment is characterized by diversity. We encourage qualified
candidates to apply, regardless of their gender, functional capacity or cultural
background.

The city of Gjøvik has a population of 30 000 and is a town known for its rich
music and cultural life. The beautiful nature surrounding the city is ideal for
an active outdoor life! The Norwegian welfare state, including healthcare,
schools, kindergartens and overall equality, is probably the best of its kind in
the world.

As an employee at NTNU, you must at all times adhere to the changes that the
development in the subject entails and the organizational changes that are
adopted.

Information Act (Offentleglova), your name, age, position and municipality may
be made public even if you have requested not to have your name entered on the
list of applicants.

If you have any questions about the position, please contact Professor Faouzi
Alaya Cheikh, email **faouzi.cheick@ntnu.no**. If
you have any questions about the recruitment process, please contact Stine
Terese Ruen Nymoen, e-mail: **stine.t.r.nymoen@ntnu.no**

Please submit your application electronically via
[jobbnorge.no](https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/190363/phd-in-analytics-for-visualization-in-computational-surgery-planning)
with your CV, diplomas and certificates. Applications submitted elsewhere will
not be considered. Diploma Supplement is required to attach for European Master
Diplomas outside Norway. Chinese applicants are required to provide confirmation
of [Master Diploma from China Credentials Verification (CHSI)](http://www.chsi.com.cn/en/).

If you are invited for interview you must include certified copies of
transcripts and reference letters. Please refer to the application number 2020/
19453 when applying.

Application deadline: 01.09.2020

